# myScheduler
Appointment Scheduler project for software II assessment.
Title of Application: myScheduler

Purpose of Application: Provide a Graphical User Interface for a client to provide
Create, Read, Update and Delete functionality for a mySQL database to manage appointments and customers.

Author: James Klimek

Student Application Version 1.0.0

IDE: IntelliJ IDEA 2022.3.2 (Community Edition)
JDK version 17.0.5
JavaFX-SDK-17.0.2
MySQL Connector driver version: mysql-connector-java-8.0.25.jar

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
**RUNNING THE PROGRAM**

    *Login Screen:
        On launching the application you will be presented with a login screen that is translated
        based on your local Operating System Language. **(per this project's requirements it only translates French)
            Type in the username and password and click sign in. (If you get an error try retyping the username and password)
            The cancel button will prompt the user asking if they want to close the program.
        A connection to the database will be established.

    *Appointments Screen:
        On successful login you will be brought to the Appointments screen. You will see one of two prompts,
            1. A pop-up alert saying you have an appointment within the next 15 minutes
            2. A pop-up alert letting you know you don't have any upcoming appointments.

        The tableview is populated with all existing appointments.
            There are multiple filter options for the appointments.
            1. The drop-down selection box allows you to filter appointments by Customer.
            2. The radio buttons allow you to filter appointments either by current month or current week.

        The appointment menu buttons in the lower left:
            1. New - opens a new form to create a new appointment.
                a. The appointment ID field is autogenerated from the database and cannot be edited.
                b. The other fields cannot be empty or will throw an alert pop-up error.
                c. Use the calendar icon when choosing start and end dates.
                d. When selecting a start and end time for the appointment keep in mind the times are listed as the local
                    time according to the users local time. However, acceptable times are between 8am and 10pm EST.
                    I. Appointments cannot overlap for any 1 Customer. If attempting to schedule an overlapping appointment
                        an alert will pop-up letting the user know to select a different time.
                    II. Appointment end time cannot be before the start time or an alert will pop-up.
                e. click save to save the appointment or cancel to cancel creating a new appointment.
                        This will return the user to the Appointments screen.

            2. Update - opens a new form to update the currently selected appointment in the table.
                a. If no appointment is selected and error will pop up.
                b. The rest is the same as the New appointment form.
                c. On save the updated appointment will be updated in the database and the tableview.
                d. The user will be returned to the Appointments screen.

            3. Delete - deletes the selected appointment in the table from the database. (Cancels the appointment)
                a. This will pop up a confirmation Alert to cancel the appointment.
                b. Clicking Ok will pop up an Alert with the appointment ID letting the user know that the appointment was cancelled.

        The Reports button opens the reports screen.
        The Customers button opens the customers screen.

        In the bottom right corner it displays the current signed-in user and a logout button
        that will sign the user out and go back to the login screen.

    *Customers Screen:
        The customer screen shows a tableview of all customers in the database.
        The customer menu buttons in the lower left:
            1. New - opens a new form to create a new Customer.
                a. The customer ID field is autogenerated from the database and cannot be edited.
                b. The other fields cannot be empty or will throw an alert pop-up error.
                c. The Country selection will filter the Division selection based on the Country chosen
                    (ex. U.S will filter the Division drop-down to only show the U.S States/Territories).
                e. click save to save the Customer or cancel to cancel creating a new customer.
                    This will return the user to the Customers screen.

            2. Update - opens a new form to update the currently selected customer in the table.
                a. If no customer is selected and error will pop up.
                b. The rest is the same as the New customer form.
                c. On save the updated customer will be updated in the database and the tableview.
                d. The user will be returned to the Customers screen.

            3. Delete - deletes the selected appointment in the table from the database. (Cancels the appointment)
                a. This will pop up a confirmation alert letting the user know that if the Customer has any appointments
                    that those appointments will be cancelled and deleted. Select Ok to confirm deletion or cancel to go
                    back to the customers screen.

        The Reports button opens the reports screen.
        The Appointments button opens the appointments screen.

        In the bottom right corner it displays the current signed-in user and a logout button
            that will sign the user out and go back to the login screen.

    *Reports Screen:
        The reports screen shows three different reports:
            1. Total Appointments
                a. Type - select the type of appointment from the drop-down menu. This will display the appointment type
                    selected and the total number of appointments of that type.
                b. Month - select the Month from the drop-down menu. This will display the current Year's Month selected
                    and the total number of appointments for that Month.

            2. Contact Schedule
                a. Select a contact from the drop-down menu. This will populate the tableview with all appointments
                    for the selected contact.
                b. The table will display the Appointment ID, Title, Description, Type, Start Date/Time, End Date/Time
                    and the associated Customer ID.

            3. Total Customers by Country *** ADDITIONAL REPORT ACCORDING TO THE PROJECT REQUIREMENT A3f ***
                a. Select a Country from the drop-down menu. This will display the selected Country and a total number
                    of customers from that Country.

           The Appointments button opens the appointments screen.
           The Customers button opens the reports screen.

           In the bottom right corner it displays the current signed-in user and a logout button
               that will sign the user out and go back to the login screen.

    Once the user is done with the program they can click the Logout button to go back to the login screen
        and then click the cancel button to close the program or click the X in the top right of the window.
        Closing the program will close the database connection.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

